#summary a list of lacking features for the first nsp version

<wiki:toc max_depth="3" />

= Introduction = 
In this wiki page we will try to list the features that
nsp lacks for a first public version, or in other words
what should be "nsp base". The list should not be too
long so as the lacking features could be implemented,
says, before the end of this year.If you think that 
nsp really needs such feature or want to comment about
already listed ones you could post a message at the end
of this page. 

= A first list =

 # complete the help: this is important so as to known what is already implemented. Note that the NspHelpOrganization provides some information about the current help state.
 # provide functions to read/write mat files: such functions already exists in a toolbox so it will not much work. Moreover as octave and scilab have these features it will let a user to be able to exchange datas between them. This is important, for instance a computation started with nsp could be continued easily with octave or scilab (because the user needs feature xxxx not in nsp but in the other software).  
 # graphics: nsp has had first some graphic features similar to the ones of the "old scilab graphic system" but a new (object) graphic system is under construction: it should be documented (help pages), completed/tested in order that some basic graphic features will work. We could choose those basic features we want for this first version. 

= Users comments =

 This part will list users comments about wanted features 
 