#summary informations about the nsp help

<wiki:toc max_depth="3" />

=introduction=
This wiki page gives some informations on the nsp help which is still not completed. Its purpose
is also to have some feed-back from users which can post comments at the end of this wiki page. 

The nsp help is organized as a collection of chapters, each one being a list of
functions/methods/topics. See [http://www.iecn.u-nancy.fr/~pincon/nsp/nsp_manual/manual.html a snapshot of the current help pages]. Here, for each chapter,  we list some functions not already documented and also some missed chapters together
with a list of functions they should contain (waiting for a complete set of chapters we have put some already documented
help pages in a misc chapter).

=a few remarks about the organization=
  * an help page could be referenced by several chapters (for instance the umfpack page is referenced both by the data type and the linear algebra chapters).
  * the "summary page" of each chapter should be written by hand and this lets an additionnal freedom to organize the chapter presentation.
  * a page (which is a latex file) can contain the description of several functions (examples: min, max, minmax functions, sum and prod functions, complex, real, imag functions).

=users feedback=

If you want to suggest some improvments don't hesitate to write a comment at this end of this page (you just need a [https://accounts.google.com google account]). For instance :
 # if you need the help page of a function which is still not documented (btw you can suggest one or two (or more) chapter from which it can be referenced).
 # you can suggest improvments:
 * in the general organization
 * in the organization of a given chapter 
 * in a given help page which is not clear, which lacks some examples, etc...

=existent chapters=

==data_types== 

  [http://www.iecn.u-nancy.fr/~pincon/nsp/nsp_manual/manualli1.html#Q1-2-2 current data_types chapter]

  Some missed pages:
   # GdkPixbuf - nsp image type (this is nevertheless documented in the ImagesInNsp wikipage)

==basic arrays functions==

  [http://www.iecn.u-nancy.fr/~pincon/nsp/nsp_manual/manualli20.html#Q1-21-136 current basic arrays functions chapter]

  Some missed pages:
   # sub2ind
   # ndind2ind
   # is, type - query object type -

==basic functions or methods for numerical matrices==

  [http://www.iecn.u-nancy.fr/~pincon/nsp/nsp_manual/manualli32.html#Q1-33-214 current basic functions or methods for numerical matrices chapter]

 Some missed pages:
  # real and complex numbers, floating point number (link to floating point and integer numbers properties)
  # empty matrices rules
  # : operator
  # usual operators +, -, *, /, .*, ./, ^, .^
  # add (a short description is available in the Mat data type help page)
  # spones
  # full
  # sparse

==strings==

  [http://www.iecn.u-nancy.fr/~pincon/nsp/nsp_manual/manualli50.html#Q1-51-331 current strings chapter]

  No missed pages ?

==numbers (properties, display,...)==

   [http://www.iecn.u-nancy.fr/~pincon/nsp/nsp_manual/manualli68.html#Q1-69-417 current numbers chapter]

  Some missed pages:
   # intmin, intmax - min and max for integer types (IMat)
   # clean

==miscellaneous==

  [http://www.iecn.u-nancy.fr/~pincon/nsp/nsp_manual/manualli82.html#Q1-83-503 current misc chapter]

  help pages from this chapter will be dispatched in future new chapters

==numerics (ode, f(x)=0, integrals, interpolation, optimization,...)==

  [http://www.iecn.u-nancy.fr/~pincon/nsp/nsp_manual/manualli95.html#Q1-96-582 current numerics chapter]

  Possibly this chapter will be split in the future...

  Some missed pages:
   # optim

==signal processing == 

  [http://www.iecn.u-nancy.fr/~pincon/nsp/nsp_manual/manualli111.html#Q1-112-736 current signal processing chapter]

  Some missed pages:
   # fft2, ifft2

==searching and sorting (find, search, sort, set functions...)==

  [http://www.iecn.u-nancy.fr/~pincon/nsp/nsp_manual/manualli115.html#Q1-116-761 current searching and sorting chapter]

  No missed pages ?

==linear algebra==

  [http://www.iecn.u-nancy.fr/~pincon/nsp/nsp_manual/manualli127.html#Q1-128-884 current linear algebra chapter]

  Some missed pages:
   # the backslash operator
   # det
   # gspec
   # solve_banded
   # lsq
   # hess
   # balanc

==random numbers generation, statistics functions, density and cdf functions==

  [http://www.iecn.u-nancy.fr/~pincon/nsp/nsp_manual/manualli149.html#Q1-150-1046 current chapter]

  Some missed pages:
   # rand_discrete - random number generation for given user finite discrete distributions
   # sprand - uniform or normal random numbers in sparse matrix
   # kcdf, kcdflim - kolmogorov and limit kolmogorov cdf functions

==Gui==
  
  [http://www.iecn.u-nancy.fr/~pincon/nsp/nsp_manual/manualli174.html#Q1-175-1213 current chapter]

  Currently only old scilab gui functions are described may be we have to put here all 
  gtk stuff which is available from nsp.

==Graphics==

  [http://www.iecn.u-nancy.fr/~pincon/nsp/nsp_manual/manualli183.html#Q1-184-1261 current chapter]

  Most functions are not documented. 


==Files, I/O, system functions==

  [http://www.iecn.u-nancy.fr/~pincon/nsp/nsp_manual/manualli187.html#Q1-188-1281 current chapter]

  No missed pages ?


==Play and record sound samples==

  [http://www.iecn.u-nancy.fr/~pincon/nsp/nsp_manual/manualli206.html#Q1-207-1387 current chapter]

  No missed pages ?


=non existent chapters=

==programming==

  It should expose the main nsp language structures...
   # function, endfunction - keywords delimiting a function definition 
   # is, type - query object type
   # for and while loops, break - loop constructs
   # if, select - tests
   # try catch 
   # ....

==elementary and special math func==

  * elementary
   # modulo, mod
   # floor, ceil, round, clean

  * elementary transcendental
   # sqrt
   # hypot
   # exp, log, lop1p
   # sin, asin, sinpi, cos, acos, tan, atan
   # sinpi, cospi, tanpi, cotanpi
   # sinh, asinh, cosh, acosh, tanh, atanh

  * special math func
   # gamma, gammaln, digamma
   # erf, erfc, erfcx
   # bessel
   # ....



=latex help related explanations=

The nsp help is build from latex pages. It is converted in html using 
Eitan Gurary [http://www.cse.ohio-state.edu/~gurari/TeX4ht/mn.html ht4latex] code.

This section _needs certainly supplementary explanations_

==tricks==

The file `nsp2/man/src/model/model.tex` gives several tricks. In particular there are different ways to introduce nsp code but we recommend to use the `Verbatim` (note the upper case V) which is much much simpler than using \begin{program} \HCode, etc...):

{{{
\begin{Verbatim}
my lines of nsp code just as if it
is in its own text file
\end{Verbatim}
}}}


==the summary chapter file==

These source files are located in `nsp2/man/src/`. Once you have wrote an help page (to place in a `nsp2/man/src/chapter_name` directory) you should add two entries (an hyperlink and an input command) inside its corresponding summary chapter file (generally `nsp2/man/src/chapter_name.tex`). See one of these files.

==compilation==

Different solutions:
  * in `nsp2/man/html/generated`, enter `make manual`. All the manual is compiled (this is time consuming); latex errors are displayed and the system wait for an answer (as usual you can enter x to continue). Note that the index is not updated.
  * in  `nsp2/man/html`, enter `make manual`. Use only this way when you are sure that the whole help compiles (otherwise latex errors freeze the compilation). The index is updated.
  * Jpc says: on obtient le man d'un example particulier en tapant `make` dans `nsp2/man/html-one` ou `make
  MANPAGE=model/model.tex` (par defaut on obtient le man de model). 